In this lecture, we are going to add some formatting to the Excel output we just created.
So we have just to resume.
We have an Excel file created with one sheet, one cell on the first line and the first column.
And this is just a simple text with the first cell value content and.
Haven't introduced any formatting yet.
So we can create a new one so we can see this workbook has something called the Creative Cells style.
We don't apply a styles directly to to cell, so we create a style as object and we, we can apply the
same style to different cells.
So we have the style definition, we have actually empty style.
And we can set, as you can see, many different properties here like border alignments, colors and
background for foreground colors.
So let's add some more information or board formatting.
So we set a button border.
And to we can apply that style to the cell we just created.
So we have the cell with the initial text value.
We created the style and we apply the style to the cell.
So let's restart our application and just try to create or surf the Excel file once again with the updated
content.
So just let's try to zoom it a bit and we can see we have the cell with the text value and we can see
the border as we just define.
So it was just as easy as this implementation.
We have this style cell style object and we apply that cell style object to the two particular cell
we can out.
One more thing.
We can define font information.
So as the default behavior, just default font is used.
The text was in black color.
So we can create a font information and we we get, we can set a color.
We can use help or object to call the index colors so we can choose correct value.
We can choose a green one.
So we have the font object.
We set a color to the font now.
We can just say we would like to display a text in bold.
And two, we use the style object.
We created just a few lines above and we set the font as we defined earlier.
So we have the cell style, we have the font object created and defined, and we set the font to the
style.
So there is no need to change anything else.
This style is being applied to the cell so we can restart our application and we can review the output
and we can see as we defined, we can zoom it a bit.
We can see we have that cell with the black bottom border and the value is in bold and green color.
So exactly as we defined in our code, Excel API is actually easy to understand.
So it's easy to follow or enhance our two new more features.
As we started with, we can see the result is available in the screen almost immediately after the update.
So the overall turnaround is quite quick and we can see we just created a controller, we created a
helper method and that's almost all we need to produce Excel file in our application of any kind.